LIST OF PROGRAMS / EXPERIMENTS / EXERCISES:
1. HDFS (Storage)
A. Hadoop Storage File system
Your first objective is to create a directory structure in HDFS using HDFS commands.
Create the local files using Linux commands and move the files to HDFS directory.
and vice versa.
I. Write a command to create the directory structure in HDFS.
II. Write a Command to move file from local Unix/Linux machine to HDFS.
B. Viewing Data Contents, Files and Directory
Try to perform these simple steps:
a) Write HDFS command to see the contents of files in HDFS.
b) Write HDFS command to see contents of files which are present in HDFS.
C. Getting Files data from the HDFS to Local Disk
I. Write an HDFS command to copy the file from HDFS to the local file system.
To process any data first move the data in HDFS. All files storage in HDFS can be.
accessed using HDFS commands.
Lab Instructions:
i. Your objective is to use HDFS commands to move data to HDFS for processing.
data.
2. Map Reduce Programming (Processing data).
Hadoop Map-Reduce framework is developed using Java, but the framework allows.
you to write programs in other languages as well.
A. Word Count
The word count problem is the most famous using map reduce program. Same thing
We can do it with java but takes lot of time with huge files, in MR it will process less
time.
even with huge and distributed files. The objective is to count the frequency of
words of a large text.
Lab Instructions:
i. Develop MapReduce example program in a MapReduce environment to find out.
the number of occurrences of each word in a text file
B. Most Frequent Words Count
Use the output from the previous program to list the most frequent words with their
counts.
Lab Instructions:
i. Use the same strategy of breaking the programs in three parts. Copy the files from
the previous exercise and use them as a starting point.
ii. Load the data from the output by using third filter to load the files.
3. Data Processing Tool – Hive (NOSQL query-based language)
Hive command line tool allows you to submit jobs via bash scripts.
Identifying properties of a data set:
We have a table 'user data' that contains the following fields:
data date: string
user_id: string
properties: string
The properties field is formatted as a series of attribute=value pairs.
Ex: Age=21; state=CA; gender=M;
Lab Instructions:
i. Create the table in HIVE using hive nosql based query.
ii. Fill the table with sample data by using some sample databases.
iii. Write a program that produces a list of properties with minimum value(min_value),
largest value(max_value) and number of unique values. Before you start, execute
the prepare step to load the data into HDFS.
iv. Generate a count per state.
Now that extracted the properties, calculate the number of records per state.
Lab Instructions:
i. Write a program that lists the states and their count from the data input.
4. Data Processing Tool – Pig (Latin based scripting lang)
Pig command line tool like the Hive allows you to submit jobs via bash scripts.
A. Simple Logs
We have a set of log files and need to create a job that runs every hour and perform
some calculations.
The log files are delimited by a 'tab' character and have the following fields:
a) site
b) hour_of_day
c) page_views
d) data_date
The log files are located on the prepare folder. Load them in HDFS at data/ pig/
simple logs folder and use them as the input.
Important: In order to load tab delimited files use pigStorage ('\u0001').
Lab Instructions:
Create a program to:
i. Calculate the total views per hour per day.
ii. Calculate the total views per day.
iii. Calculate the total counts of each hour across all days.
iv. We can write word count script by passing text file as input.
5. SQOOP
It is used to import and export data from SQL to HDFS and Vice versa.
Before processing any data first need to import data into HDFS. As of now seen
importing files into HDFS but using sqoop tool we can import SQL table data into hive
table.
I. Create table in HIVE using hive query language.
II. Import the sql table data into hive using sqoop too.
III. Export hive table data into local machine and into SQL.
6. Exploring ARIMA model